a common analogy that people
like to make is that if you are
the first colony on Mars that's
kinda like the pilgrims coming
from Europe to the new world you
know you're not going back
you've got your loved ones your
possessions a competent ship
commander but there's a
fundamental difference between
being the first Europeans to the
new world of being the first
growth leads to mars the
difference is when the europeans
landed at plymouth rock or
wherever else on the east coast
of the United States and they
step off of their ship onto the
land they could breathe the air
that the trees in the new world
were made of wood so that if
they damage their ship they can
repair it
the fruit though it was exotic
to them was entirely edible and
if it wasn't edible they get
sick and they learn not to eat
it and try a different route and
by the way many of them died but
we don't talk much about how
many pilgrims died not only
avoids over but in the first
year to that they arrived they
were dying even though they were
still on earth so to say let's
go to mars in it and now again
us know you gotta bring your
oxygen you gotta bring you water
you gotta bring your food pretty
sure there aren't monsters that
will attack them that they're
going to fall off the edge of
the universe where they fear
factors plus we've been to Mars
with robots so the unknown
unknowns are are significantly
diminished I wouldn't mind going
to mars but just to visit I can
I can be there